doc/2015-03-01-docker-asciidoctorj-wildfly-arquillian.adoc, before:

= Asciidoctor uses Arquillian and Docker to easily ensure that AsciidoctorJ works into WildFly AS
Maxime Greau <greau.maxime@gmail.com>
v1.0, March 01, 2015: First English version
:awestruct-layout: post
:awestruct-tags: [asciidoctor, docker, wildfly, arquillian]
:toc2:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toc-title: Table of Contents
:source-highlighter: coderay
:linkattrs:
:sectanchors:
:sectlink:
:experimental:
:mdash: &#8212;
:language: asciidoc
:includedir: _includes
:icons: font
//Refs
:link-devnation-talk: http://www.devnation.org/2014/#websocketAsciidoctor
:link-devnation-bof: http://www.devnation.org/2014/#bofWildfly8
:link-asciidoctorj-bug1: http://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues
:link-asciidoctorj-bug2: http://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues
:uri-asciidoctor: http://asciidoctor.org
:uri-asciidoctor-dockerhub: https://registry.hub.docker.com/repos/asciidoctor/
:uri-asciidoctorj: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj
:uri-asciidoctorj-diagram: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgreau/slides/master/websocket-asciidoctor/NantesJUG/images/asciidoctor-java.png
:uri-asciidoctorj-doc: http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctorj/
:uri-docker-asciidoctorj-github: http://github.com/mgreau/docker-asciidoctorj
:uri-asciidoctor-docker-hub: https://registry.hub.docker.com/repos/asciidoctor/
:uri-asciidoctor: http://asciidoctor.org
:uri-arquillian-cube-github: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube
:uri-jboss-wildfly-docker: https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/jboss/wildfly/
:uri-docker: http://docker.com
:uri-asciidoctorj-wildflyas-install: http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctorj/#running-asciidoctorj-on-wildfly-as
:uri-twitter-dan-allen: http://twitter.com/mojavelinux
:uri-twitter-alex-sotob: http://twitter.com/alexsotob

TIP: Language *_EN_* /  Timereading *_5 mn_*

[NOTE]
.Overview
====
This post explains how we execute Arquillian tests into a Docker container, so we'll talk about :

* {uri-docker-asciidoctorj-github}[docker-asciidoctorj], the dedicated project on Asciidoctor organization
* {uri-arquillian-cube-github}[Arquillian Cube], the Arquillian extension that can be used to manager Docker containers from Arquillian.
* {uri-jboss-wildfly-docker}[the WildFly docker image] from JBoss
====

It's been a while since I +wrote+ here but like many technicals blogger (I guess), I've a lot of blog posts on draft mode. And I've a lot to write about 2014 which was
an *AMAZING year* : indeed, thanks to the {uri-asciidoctor}[*Asciidoctor project*] and +Java EE 7 / WildFly+ technologies, I gave *2 talks* at {link-devnation-talk}[+DevNation, San Francisco+] to speak about Open Source projects :)  +
But I'll blog about it +awesome experience+ soon.

*So what this post is about : Docker ? Asciidoctor ?*

You've just read the title and you said : +

- _"Oh no ! Not another post about Docker!"_, 

and I want to answer +

- _"Well, it's 2015, is it possible to write a blog post without mentionning Docker ?_" +

Serioulsy, it's more a blog post about the {uri-asciidoctorj-github}[AsciidoctorJ] project and how {uri-docker}[Docker] helps us to easily check that AsciidoctorJ can be execute into a Java EE application server like WildFly. +
So it's not a post about Docker itself but more a use case where Docker is the key to the ease of tests...OK you're right, it's about Docker :)

pass::[more]

== Asciidoctor on the JVM with AsciidoctorJ

I guess that I don't need to introduce Asciidoctor now that it became so popular since it's was started by {uri-twitter-dan-allen}[*Dan Allen*] at the end of 2012.
But
Like you know now, Asciidoctor is a toolchain that give you the

----
AsciidoctorJ is the official library for running Asciidoctor on the JVM.
Using AsciidoctorJ, you can convert AsciiDoc content or analyze the structure of a parsed AsciiDoc document from Java and other JVM languages
----

[[asciidoctorj_jvm]]
.Asciidoctor on the JVM with AsciidoctorJ
image::{uri-asciidoctorj-diagram}[Diagram which explains how AsciidoctorJ makes Asciidoctor works on the JVM,550]

TODO => add diagram

== AsciidoctorJ in a Java application server ?

So here we have a problem 
The problem is that if you want to include AsciidoctorJ in your Java application, it's not easy. Indeed, AsciidoctorJ is base on JRUby and
we have some classloader troubles with JRuby see bugs and discussions below :

- bug1
- bug2
- bug3

=== How do we solve it in a first way

We tried

=== The power of Arquillian & Docker

==== Arquillian Cube extension

Arquillian Cube is an Aq
TODO => schema
TODO => exemple code

==== Docker AsciidoctorJ project in details

The project layout is as follows :

[[eg5-callouts]]
.project structure
====
[source, text]
----
+ dockerfiles
   |+ wildfly82
      |- Dockerfile   // <1>
+ src/main/java
   |+ org.asciidoctor
      |- AsciidoctorProcessor.java    // <2>
      |- ConverterServlet.java   // <3>
+ src/main/resources
   |+ adoc
      |- sample.adoc   // <5>
+ src/test/java
   |+ org.asciidoctor
      |- ConverterServletTest.java   // <4>
+ src/test/resources
   |+ wildfly
      |- MANIFEST.MF   // <5>
   |- arquillian.xml   
pom.xml		
----
<1> TODO
<2> TODO
<3> TODO 
<4> TODO
<5> TODO
====


[[eg1-callouts]]
.Dockerfile
====
[source, text]
----
FROM jboss/wildfly:8.2.0.Final   // <1>
MAINTAINER Maxime Gréau <greau.maxime@gmail.com>

# Create a WildFly admin user to deploy app with CLI
RUN /opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/add-user.sh -up mgmt-users.properties admin Admin#70365 --silent

# Set env variables for versions
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION 1.5.2
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION 1.5.0-alpha.6
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION 1.5.0-alpha.4
ENV JRUBY_VERSION 1.7.16.1

# Handle asciidoctor-backends
ENV ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS /opt/jboss/asciidoctor-backends
RUN mkdir -p ${ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS}

# Create the AsciidoctorJ module
RUN mkdir -p ${JBOSS_HOME}/modules/org/asciidoctor/main
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE /opt/jboss/wildfly/modules/org/asciidoctor/main

# Output directory to store generated files
ENV OUTPUT_DIRECTORY /opt/jboss/documents
RUN mkdir -p ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}

# Set the ULR_BASE env variable to download artifacts
ENV URL_BASE https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/

ADD module.xml ${ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE}/module.xml

RUN cd ${ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE} \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj-pdf/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-pdf-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj-epub3/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-epub3-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O -m 900 ${URL_BASE}org/jruby/jruby-complete/${JRUBY_VERSION}/jruby-complete-${JRUBY_VERSION}.jar \
\
&& (curl -LkSs https://api.github.com/repos/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-backends/tarball | tar xfz - -C ${ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS} --strip-components=1)

WORKDIR ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}
VOLUME ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}

CMD ["/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/standalone.sh", "-b", "0.0.0.0", "-bmanagement", "0.0.0.0"]
----
<1> start with the WildFly JBoss image
<2> TODO
<3> TODO
<4> TODO

====


== AsciidoctorJ in your favorite Java application server ?

It seems that the *JRuby* classloader problem is solve with the use of *JBoss Modules components*. +
But if you want to quickly test AsciidoctorJ in your favorite Java application server +
If you're using another Java application server than WildFly AS like TomEE...feel free to fork the project and quickly tests if it works into
application server, here are the steps to follow :

 . Fork the GitHub repository {uri-docker-asciidoctorj}[docker-asciidoctorj] 
 . Create a +Dockerfile+ file in a +dockerfiles+ subfolder, following the named convention +{appservername}{version}+
 . Update the +src/test/resources/arquillian.xml+ file to add a docker container
 . Update the +pom.xml+ to add Maven profiles related to the application server
 . Execute tests (maybe create a dedicated test) and see the results

If you do it, I'd love to have your feedbacks so feel free to add a comment here, on the discussion list or on the GitHub project. +
We are waiting for PR :)

== Asciidoctor has is own official registry on Docker Hub

The good news here is that the asciidoctor project now have an easy way to test if the future versions will be compatible with this architecture.
The other good news is that the
I'm proud to be one of the admin for 

Have fun with *Asciidoctor*, *Arquillian* and *Docker* :)

Commit message:

Add docker-arquillian-asciidoctor image

doc/2015-03-01-docker-asciidoctorj-wildfly-arquillian.adoc, after:

= Asciidoctor uses Arquillian and Docker to easily ensure that AsciidoctorJ works into WildFly AS
Maxime Greau <greau.maxime@gmail.com>
v1.0, March 01, 2015: First English version
:awestruct-layout: post
:awestruct-tags: [asciidoctor, docker, wildfly, arquillian]
:toc2:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toc-title: Table of Contents
:source-highlighter: coderay
:linkattrs:
:sectanchors:
:sectlink:
:experimental:
:mdash: &#8212;
:language: asciidoc
:includedir: _includes
:icons: font
:images: ./images/
//Refs
:link-devnation-talk: http://www.devnation.org/2014/#websocketAsciidoctor
:link-devnation-bof: http://www.devnation.org/2014/#bofWildfly8
:link-asciidoctorj-bug1: http://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues
:link-asciidoctorj-bug2: http://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/issues
:uri-asciidoctor: http://asciidoctor.org
:uri-asciidoctor-dockerhub: https://registry.hub.docker.com/repos/asciidoctor/
:uri-asciidoctorj: https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj
:uri-asciidoctorj-diagram: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgreau/slides/master/websocket-asciidoctor/NantesJUG/images/asciidoctor-java.png
:uri-asciidoctorj-doc: http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctorj/
:uri-docker-asciidoctorj-github: http://github.com/mgreau/docker-asciidoctorj
:uri-asciidoctor-docker-hub: https://registry.hub.docker.com/repos/asciidoctor/
:uri-asciidoctor: http://asciidoctor.org
:uri-arquillian-cube-github: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube
:uri-jboss-wildfly-docker: https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/jboss/wildfly/
:uri-docker: http://docker.com
:uri-asciidoctorj-wildflyas-install: http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctorj/#running-asciidoctorj-on-wildfly-as
:uri-twitter-dan-allen: http://twitter.com/mojavelinux
:uri-twitter-alex-sotob: http://twitter.com/alexsotob

TIP: Language *_EN_* /  Timereading *_5 mn_*

[NOTE]
.Overview
====
This post explains how we execute Arquillian tests into a Docker container, so we'll talk about :

* {uri-docker-asciidoctorj-github}[docker-asciidoctorj], the dedicated project on Asciidoctor organization
* {uri-arquillian-cube-github}[Arquillian Cube], the Arquillian extension that can be used to manager Docker containers from Arquillian.
* {uri-jboss-wildfly-docker}[the WildFly docker image] from JBoss
====

It's been a while since I +wrote+ here but like many technicals blogger (I guess), I've a lot of blog posts on draft mode. And I've a lot to write about 2014 which was
an *AMAZING year* : indeed, thanks to the {uri-asciidoctor}[*Asciidoctor project*] and +Java EE 7 / WildFly+ technologies, I gave *2 talks* at {link-devnation-talk}[+DevNation, San Francisco+] to speak about Open Source projects :)  +
But I'll blog about it +awesome experience+ soon.

*So what this post is about : Docker ? Asciidoctor ? Arquillian ?*

[[docker_arquillian_asciidoctor]]
.The power of Arquillian & Docker for testing AsciidoctorJ
image::docker-arquillian-asciidoctor.svg[AsciidoctorJ Docker containers managed by Arquillian,550]


You've just read the title and you said : +

- _"Oh no ! Not another post about Docker!"_, 

and I want to answer +

- _"Well, it's 2015, is it possible to write a blog post without mentionning Docker ?_" +

Serioulsy, it's more a blog post about the {uri-asciidoctorj-github}[AsciidoctorJ] project and how {uri-docker}[Docker] helps us to easily check that AsciidoctorJ can be execute into a Java EE application server like WildFly. +
So it's not a post about Docker itself but more a use case where Docker is the key to the ease of tests...OK you're right, it's about Docker :)

pass::[more]

== Asciidoctor on the JVM with AsciidoctorJ

I guess that I don't need to introduce Asciidoctor now that it became so popular since it's was started by {uri-twitter-dan-allen}[*Dan Allen*] at the end of 2012.
But
Like you know now, Asciidoctor is a toolchain that give you the

----
AsciidoctorJ is the official library for running Asciidoctor on the JVM.
Using AsciidoctorJ, you can convert AsciiDoc content or analyze the structure of a parsed AsciiDoc document from Java and other JVM languages
----

[[asciidoctorj_jvm]]
.Asciidoctor on the JVM with AsciidoctorJ
image::{uri-asciidoctorj-diagram}[Diagram which explains how AsciidoctorJ makes Asciidoctor works on the JVM,550]

TODO => add diagram

== AsciidoctorJ in a Java application server ?

So here we have a problem 
The problem is that if you want to include AsciidoctorJ in your Java application, it's not easy. Indeed, AsciidoctorJ is base on JRUby and
we have some classloader troubles with JRuby see bugs and discussions below :

- bug1
- bug2
- bug3

=== How do we solve it in a first way

We tried

=== The power of Arquillian & Docker

==== Arquillian Cube extension

Arquillian Cube is an Aq
TODO => schema
TODO => exemple code

==== Docker AsciidoctorJ project in details

The project layout is as follows :

[[eg5-callouts]]
.project structure
====
[source, text]
----
+ dockerfiles
   |+ wildfly82
      |- Dockerfile   // <1>
+ src/main/java
   |+ org.asciidoctor
      |- AsciidoctorProcessor.java    // <2>
      |- ConverterServlet.java   // <3>
+ src/main/resources
   |+ adoc
      |- sample.adoc   // <5>
+ src/test/java
   |+ org.asciidoctor
      |- ConverterServletTest.java   // <4>
+ src/test/resources
   |+ wildfly
      |- MANIFEST.MF   // <5>
   |- arquillian.xml   
pom.xml		
----
<1> TODO
<2> TODO
<3> TODO 
<4> TODO
<5> TODO
====


[[eg1-callouts]]
.Dockerfile
====
[source, text]
----
FROM jboss/wildfly:8.2.0.Final   // <1>
MAINTAINER Maxime Gréau <greau.maxime@gmail.com>

# Create a WildFly admin user to deploy app with CLI
RUN /opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/add-user.sh -up mgmt-users.properties admin Admin#70365 --silent

# Set env variables for versions
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION 1.5.2
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION 1.5.0-alpha.6
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION 1.5.0-alpha.4
ENV JRUBY_VERSION 1.7.16.1

# Handle asciidoctor-backends
ENV ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS /opt/jboss/asciidoctor-backends
RUN mkdir -p ${ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS}

# Create the AsciidoctorJ module
RUN mkdir -p ${JBOSS_HOME}/modules/org/asciidoctor/main
ENV ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE /opt/jboss/wildfly/modules/org/asciidoctor/main

# Output directory to store generated files
ENV OUTPUT_DIRECTORY /opt/jboss/documents
RUN mkdir -p ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}

# Set the ULR_BASE env variable to download artifacts
ENV URL_BASE https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/

ADD module.xml ${ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE}/module.xml

RUN cd ${ASCIIDOCTORJ_MODULE} \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj-pdf/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-pdf-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_PDF_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O ${URL_BASE}org/asciidoctor/asciidoctorj-epub3/${ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION}/asciidoctorj-epub3-${ASCIIDOCTORJ_EPUB3_VERSION}.jar \
&& curl -O -m 900 ${URL_BASE}org/jruby/jruby-complete/${JRUBY_VERSION}/jruby-complete-${JRUBY_VERSION}.jar \
\
&& (curl -LkSs https://api.github.com/repos/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-backends/tarball | tar xfz - -C ${ASCIIDOCTOR_BACKENDS} --strip-components=1)

WORKDIR ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}
VOLUME ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}

CMD ["/opt/jboss/wildfly/bin/standalone.sh", "-b", "0.0.0.0", "-bmanagement", "0.0.0.0"]
----
<1> start with the WildFly JBoss image
<2> TODO
<3> TODO
<4> TODO

====


== AsciidoctorJ in your favorite Java application server ?

It seems that the *JRuby* classloader problem is solve with the use of *JBoss Modules components*. +
But if you want to quickly test AsciidoctorJ in your favorite Java application server +
If you're using another Java application server than WildFly AS like TomEE...feel free to fork the project and quickly tests if it works into
application server, here are the steps to follow :

 . Fork the GitHub repository {uri-docker-asciidoctorj}[docker-asciidoctorj] 
 . Create a +Dockerfile+ file in a +dockerfiles+ subfolder, following the named convention +{appservername}{version}+
 . Update the +src/test/resources/arquillian.xml+ file to add a docker container
 . Update the +pom.xml+ to add Maven profiles related to the application server
 . Execute tests (maybe create a dedicated test) and see the results

If you do it, I'd love to have your feedbacks so feel free to add a comment here, on the discussion list or on the GitHub project. +
We are waiting for PR :)

== Asciidoctor has is own official registry on Docker Hub

The good news here is that the asciidoctor project now have an easy way to test if the future versions will be compatible with this architecture.
The other good news is that the
I'm proud to be one of the admin for 

Have fun with *Asciidoctor*, *Arquillian* and *Docker* :)
